The very first
one will be from Empish Thomas,
freelance writer and blogger.
This presentation is titled,
A Picture is Worth a Thousand Words:
How Alt Text Communicates
Accessibility and Inclusion.
I hope you enjoy.
Thank you.
Hello,
and welcome to my presentation,
A Picture is Worth a
Thousand Words: How Alt Text
Communicates Accessibility
and Inclusion.
My name is Empish.
I'm a black woman with
gray-brown, shoulder-length hair
and light-brown eyes.
I am wearing a blue,
short sleeve blazer with a pink top
and pearl jewelry.
Many of us know a picture
is worth a thousand words.
And we also know the value images,
graphics, and pictures bring
to a blog or website.
Eye-catching images
enhance any website.
Yet for those with vision
loss, those very images
can communicate exclusion
if alt text is not provided.
As a blind blogger and manager of a
WordPress website I know firsthand
how important it is to have
alt text to describe images.
I am online daily and when
images are not described,
it hinders my overall experience
and interaction with that website.
In this presentation I will share
how providing alt text makes
for a more accessible and inclusive
experience for your visitor.
I will give the definition,
some best practices
while sharing my personal
experience with alt text.
Now, definition of alt text.
But before I do the definition,
alt text is also known as alt tags
or alt description.
So those names can be
used interchangeably.
Alt text is a short written
description of an image on a webpage.
These descriptions can define
photos, graphics, GIFs or videos.
Basically, any information
with visual content needs
to have audio description.
This text allows screen-reading
software to describe those images
for those of us with vision loss.
I use a screen reader daily.
And when I come across an image, my
screen reader will relay that image
to me.
If there is no alt text though,
my screen reader will say,
graphic image with no
alt text displayed.
What that tells me is
there is an image there,
but I don’t have any
idea what to do with it,
how to engage with it or anything.
Although accessibility is
the main focus of my talk,
alt text also provides
some additional features
I want to alert you to.
Number one, it allows search
engines to rank your website.
Browsers like Google can use
those alt text descriptions
to better understand visual
content affecting your page ranking
and search results.
Number two, it enhances the overall
user experience for anyone coming
to your site regardless
of disability.
Now, how to add alt text
to your website or blog.
One of the best ways to add
alt text in WordPress is
through the media library.
When you upload a photo or
image into your media library,
that image can be edited.
In the editing section there will be
a box that will be labeled alt text.
And in that box you can
type in your description.
But what do you write in that box?
This is a really good question.
Here are some best
practices for what to write
for your alt text description.
Number one, think about
the purpose of your image.
Why are you using it.
And what do you want
it to communicate.
Number two, describe the
actual content of that image.
Number three, don’t begin with
phrases that begin like picture of,
photo of, image of.
Just go right into the content
and describe your image.
Number four, keep it
short, sweet, and simple.
I have found from my personal
experience and research
when writing descriptions,
it can be subjective.
What I mean is, there is no one
specific way to write alt text.
But what you can do is think about
your audience, your loyal fans,
and subscribers, and any new
people coming to your site
and what they want.
Here are some additional best
practices on alt text to consider.
Number one, don't stuff
keywords in the alt text field.
Although you can enhance your SEO,
stuffing keywords can be complicated
and difficult to
understand for those of us
using screen- reading technology.
Number two, don't use all caps.
Some screen readers can interpret
all caps as one word which,
again, makes it complicated,
and difficult for people
with vision impairment
using reading technology.
Number three,
describe race and gender.
I recommend describing
race and gender
because it communicates
diversity and inclusion.
A sighted person can view this
image and a blind person should have
the same equal access
to that information.
When you don't describe race and
gender, white and male is assumed
to be the default.
And it, also, can be misleading,
misrepresent, and even be inaccurate.
If you need images, WordPress has
a stock-photo catalog or library
where you can pick out really
great diverse and inclusive images
for your website or blog.
Number four,
describe the text in your image.
It is not guaranteed a screen
reader will pick up the text
within an image.
Include the text as part of
your alt text description.
Okay, example of what I mean.
You have an image of
a woman holding a sign
and on that sign
there is some text.
When you write your alt
text description, you need
to also include the text
that is on that sign.
Number five, describe
complicated images like maps,
charts and diagrams.
Follow best practices for
following complicated images,
and here's two things to consider.
First, write a short
description of the image.
Just a typical alt text
description you would do.
Number two, write a longer text
with more essential details.
You can even include a
link where visitors can go
for more information on that
map or diagram or chart.
Six, describe form buttons.
Form buttons for social
media and subscription,
e-mail subscriptions need
to have a description.
So that those of us with
vision impairment can know
what action to take.
When I have gone to a site, my screen
reader will say, unlabeled button.
This again tells me something
is there, but I don't know
what to do with it,
what action to take.
Most of the time I don't do anything
which is not the result you want.
In conclusion, this presentation I
shared the definition of alt text
and its importance when it
comes to accessibility, traffic,
and user experience.
Understanding these reasons will
help you write the best alt text,
resulting in accessible
and inclusive website
because a picture is
worth a thousand words.
Thank you so much for your time
and listening to my presentation.